this vision-2 document is about a post MVP viewer application for game metrics,
statistics, and procedure flow of a symbeline-realms game. It should be intended
for viewing a game, whether ongoing (live tracking results and displaying) or
replaying a previous game with correct (acceleratable) timing flows.

the primary use-case is for visualization of the game progression. In order to
do so, the implementation (specific to each user, definable as they please) must
be configurable for however people are best suited to view things. This is one
such example that is suited to me, and along the development process we should
take extra efforts to ensure that the procedure for developing this particular
piece of software is documented and any future developers or learners are guided
in a start-to-finish journey that illustrates everything that this program could
be. All options are explained, all specifications illustrated (graphs and charts
are very helpful for reading comprehension. In fact, they are one of the most
helpful tools that language employs. Language is important - they must be
definable using words. Ideally English for this implementation, because that is
what I speak.

the visuals will be built in a game engine like godot with LLM assisted tooling
for all the scripting requirements. It will feel like a strategy game with an
infinite zoom, like Supreme Commander. The more the player zooms in, the more
units get added, such that the battlelines are displayed with an increased
resolution. The player should be able to zoom in as much as they please, and the
battlefield would get smaller and the units would stay the same size (as they're
made out of hardware sprites and clearly cannot change in size at all without
blurring or scaling, not ideal) but the world would seem to grow larger like the
expansion of the universe. The space between things is increasing. However, the
abstraction remains pure, and the resolution exists at all measurement
magnitudes. like falling through time into a world that's more grown apart, how
the petals of a blossom must feel as they radiate growth from the start.

how this would shake out during the gameplay process is that the player would
have a selection menu where they could select from buildings to place and then
they would create units that move toward each other at a relatively even pace.
then, upon meeting, they'd measure each other's strength against each other.

...

okay less crazy talk, what is this engine renderer thing even all about?

right. so the gameplay loop involves placing buildings on a map which is
randomly image generated and then image recognition is applied to sections of it
to determine resource distribution.

these buildings will spawn units every randomized iteration that will move
toward other units and do battle. There are three potential targets for a unit
to attack-move to engage:

an interior base, a frontier outpost, or the player's urbanities.

the game engine will display the units marching toward one of these locations,
and then the renderer will display some of the other player's units (still in
their deck) who will do battle with them. If the base or outpost is destroyed,
then the units will destroy it and an image will be created of the destroyed
building, a rebuilding building, and a renovated building. These will each
display at the specified building destruction/construction cycle, which can be
calculated by being first destroyed for a turn, then rebuilt until the other
player replays that card, then renovated on every turn after that. When the
building is destroyed again, there's a 1 in 3 chance that they're choose one of
the old models when redesigning. [1 in 3 is default, configurable in the config
file. there's also an option for putting all the options in a pool and to keep
regenerating new ones when idle]

if the units attack the urbanities, the defending units will push them back,
unless the player who is being attacked loses. then the city gets sacked and it
cracks like a mirror falling to shards on the ground. Then the game continues
with part of the map a permanent black.
